So, I've been thinking, thanks to a tiktok video I just watched about the golden age, 
and how there was a lot of science progress in the west DESPITE islam (I'm not islamophic,  
just pointing out what the tiktoker said)

Before Capitalism, at least in Europe, was Feudalism.   
Feudalism which can be roughly described as relationships derived from holding land in exchange of labour
(services) or goods. In Africa, at least as I was taught,   
we had Barter trade which we defined as exchange of goods and services for other goods and services.  
Land, during the Barter Trade era, was communaly owned. The 'community' was defined as a Tribe such as Kikuyu, Luo etc

As Feudalism was ending, and capitalism was rising alongside colonialism,   
the industrial revolution was happening in the background. 
Here are the characteristics of the industrial revolution:

1. Agricultural Improvements: Increased food production, supporting a growing non-agricultural population.
2. Economic Changes: Wealth distribution widened, land declined as a wealth source, industrial production rose,   
                      and international trade expanded.
3. Political Changes: Economic power shifted, and governments created policies for industrialized societies.
4. Social Changes: Cities grew, working-class movements emerged, and new authority structures developed.
5. Cultural Transformations: Workers shifted from hand-tool craftsmen to machine operators under strict factory discipline.

And as the industrial revolution became more powerful,     
it struck Feudalism dead and Colonialism and Capitalism emerged as winners and the predominant political, 
economic and social system.

Here, I argue that we might now be seeing the symptoms of the end of capitalism.  

First, let me attempt to visualize the flow of logic as expressed above.

                        FEUDALISM ----------> CAPITALISM (alongside the rise of COLONIALISM),   
and in the background was the industrial revolution.

Now, I'm thinking it's gonna look like this:

                        CAPITALISM ---------> ???????? (alongside the rise of data/AI),  
and in the background is the AI revolution, 
or we can call it the tech revolution since other factors within the tech industry are in play   
for this revolution to be taking place.

Trump recently announced the Stargate project, where 500B$ are to be invested within AI development.   
Literally the Manhattan Project received less than this, 
around 2B$, which is equivalently 25B$ in today's time. And look at the world today,   
we still live within the remnants of that. 

However, AI is more powerful and more important. Because, unlike Nuclear Power, AI redefines labour itself.   
If I submit a code, but it was entirely written by AI, 
did I or did I not do the work? If i'm given a task, put it into ChatGPT, and it does the task,   
and I submit ChatGPT's response as the solution to the task.. Is the task done or not? Short answer is, it is done.

In a world where someone's work was primarily defined by the output,   
AI has managed to challenge what is defined as human labour, and AI labor... 
And we're still struggling with arguing about the ethics of submitting a paper written by chatGPT vs submitting a paper   
written by oneself. 

Not only has AI defined labour, it has also caused a severe political change that some might say couldn't be foreseen. 
The global political power has shifted from Finance bros, to Tech bros.   
Seeing Elon Musk, Zuck, Bezos and Pichai and their wives sitted behind Trump during his   
inaugaration communicated a clear message to the world..   
That now, its the Tech bros who say what is to be done, and the world will follow suit.   
We have gotten to the point where the most powerful body is no longer the US government (though some might argue against this due to it's military power) but now it's these tech companies. While yes, US government is more pwoerful in terms of brute force, ruling people requires more subtle ways of control. Something that social media, algorithms i.e TECH has managed to do.

And now, an engineer in San Francisco, can decide what kids in South Africa see on their social media feeds,   
with just a press of a few buttons. 

What's been left quite untouched though, are the jobs that require hand labour....   
Things like farming, nursing, fruit picking etc... 
This has remained unchanged since Feudalism.... I don't know what to say about this though.   
This is just a thought that has come up in my head right now. 


So what next after Capitalism? Technocratism? Is that how we should call it?   
Here's what i would define as the characteristics of Technocratism:
1. Governance and decision-making driven by technological expertise
2. AI and data as primary mechanisms of control and resource allocation
3. Algorithmic governance replacing traditional political structures
4. etc

TO BE UPDATED

First Draft: Saturday Januray 25, 2025 6:22 PM



